All right.
So the next component that I'd like to refactor is going to be the job filter side bar job types component.
This is the component that renders the checkboxes on the left hand side with the different job types.
So here's a reminder of what this component looks like.
And as I scroll down here, we'll notice that it has some familiar ideas data which we know how to deal
with in the composition API.
Computed properties which we know how to deal with map getters.
There's also some new ideas here, like map mutations.
So that will offer us a new opportunity to incrementally learn more about the composition API.
So with that said, you'll notice that we have our unique job types getter being used here.
And I propose that we write a new composable function to access that getter.
That's exactly the same idea that we did earlier with our filter jobs getter.
We created a composable function because we imagine that that getter would be reused in multiple components.
And even if it's not, it offers us a nice way to isolate the store reading logic to its own function
that we can then mock out for our component tests.
So what I propose we do is a very similar idea for this component.
We're going to write a composable function to run this getter.
And as always, to keep things a little bit interesting, we're going to switch things up by using TDD.
So I'm going to go to my composable so far right here and I'm going to open up my composable test that
gs4.
And I'd like to run a test for a new composable function called use unique job types.
And the responsibility of that composable function will be to talk to the correct getter property or
getter method, which is unique job types.
So our test is going to be very similar to the one above.
So let's use that for inspiration.
So right here, I'm going to describe my eventual composable function.
It's going to be called use unique job types.
Composable is are typically going to begin with the use keyword.
So use unique job types.
And what is it going to do?
It retrieves unique job types from store.
All right.
So as always, we can imagine that we're going to use you store somewhere in the body of that composable.
That's exactly what we did right here.
Unused filter jobs.
We need the view store in order to get its getters property and the right getter.
So in order to do that, we're going to invoke you store.
So I can assume I'm going to use it in my implementation and thus mock it out in my actual test.
So right here use store is already imported and already adjust mock function.
So I'm going to mock return value here.
We're going to need an object with the getters property.
But the getter we care about this time around is called unique job types.
That was the name of our original getter.
And as you may recall, what it actually returns is a set object.
So right here I will instantiate a set, so new set, and I'll provide an argument of an array with
a single value of full time.
Technically speaking, we don't actually need to make this a set because in order to validate that we're
accessing the right object properties, this can technically be whatever we want and our test would
still work.
The ultimate value that we are storing in our reactive object, as long as it's the exact same one as
we're accessing from the object, then we have validated that our code is properly reading the store
and asking the right properties.
What the final value at the end of that road is is kind of irrelevant.
But in order to keep it similar to our actual real world implementation, that's why I'm using a set
here.
But you can use whatever you want.
An array, a number boolean.
The logic of the test would remain the same.
All right.
So afterwards, we're going to.
Of course.
Invoke our eventual composable function, which is going to be called use unique job types.
And this name does not exist in this file yet.
So I'm going to scroll up and import it and I know we are importing something that does not exist yet,
but that is the whole point of TDD is we just write our tests first, so we're going to assume we're
going to be able to import it from our composable file.
We're going to assume that it's going to return a value to us, will store that in result.
And we're going to assume that's going to be a reactive view value with a value property or reactive
object to be more specific.
So on my results reactive object, I'm going to access the value property and I'm going to expect that
to equal my set object from above.
And if it is, then I can validate that we are accessing the right properties on my View X store.
So paste that right here.
Except of course my keyboard never works when I need it to always embarrasses me.
Let me try copying and pasting again right here.
There we go.
All right.
Save that.
And we are, of course, going to get the failure so we can go ahead and write that function.
So right here, export const.
It's another composable function which I will call use unique job types.
All right.
In this function body, we're going to need to get access to our view store, which we can get which
we can get, of course, by invoking our use store function.
So right here can store equals use store basically going to be a replica from above.
And in order to return a reactive object, I'm going to use the computed function from view and on my
store I know that there is a getters object and that the object I want to access the correct getter.
We already have the getter name saved to a constant, so let's import it right here from our constants
file.
It's called the unique job types getter.
So right here, instead of using dot syntax to access, I'm going to use square brackets so I can provide
a constant here and JavaScript is simply going to get that property from the dynamic constant name.
So save that, let it run and we can see everything is still going to pass.
All right.
Before we close off this lesson, though, I want to do one more thing.
You may remember that our job filter, sidebar job types component is very similar in nature to another
component, and that component is job filter sidebar organizations.
This is another combination of checkboxes that we render for the users to filter and basically works
very, very similarly.
The only exception, of course, is the getter that this component uses as well as the mutation that
it runs.
So this component uses the unique organization's getter in order to get a set of the unique organizations.
Remember, this is the two separate components.
Each of them renders a different collection of checkboxes, one for job types and one for organizations.
So since I imagine using very similar logic when I refactor this component, let's write that composable
right now that's going to talk to the unique organizations getter.
So basically the exact same thing that we did right here.
But for the unique organizations getter, so right here on the right hand side, very similar test.
I'm going to describe my eventual composable function, which is called Use Unique Organizations.
Right here it's going to retrieves unique job organizations from store.
Right here.
I'm going to mark my return value.
In fact, for the most part, we can copy most of the code right here.
So let me copy this.
Place it down below.
And of course, we don't care about this getter in this test.
We care about our unique organization's getter.
So right here, unique organizations.
And of course, that is still a set object, but full time doesn't really make sense logically, since
this is supposed to store company names.
So let's provide a sample company string here like Apple.
And of course, if we do that, that means that we also need to compare it to a set containing the single
value apple right here.
And since we are using a different composable, this, of course, is going to be used unique.
Organizations that function does not exist in this file.
So let's scroll up top and import it.
Use unique organizations.
Save that.
All right.
So everything is failing because it's unable to import that name and recognize it makes sense to write
here on the left hand side.
Create a new composable function called use unique organizations.
I'll play an arrow function.
How are we going to get access to the View Store?
Simple.
We simply use the used store helper function from the View Library.
Then we return a computer function, which in turn will give us a reactive object that we're going to
spit back out.
All right.
So we want to talk to our view store.
We want to get its getters in which getter do we want unique organizations which we need to import from
our constants file.
So there we go.
And provide that in square brackets here.
Unique organizations save that.
And there we go.
So we now have three composable functions and each one is simply going to talk to the store and run
a getter to get that reactive piece of data to be able to be used in one or many components.
And again, when the store updates, view is going to know to track that because our composable function
references that reactive object in here.
So if our view x store updates our getters will rerun or the ones that are relevant and this function
will know.
And thus if we use this function in the component and return its return value in the object that we
make available to the component in the setup method, we will get those changes when Vue changes or
when its store state changes.
All right.
So things are looking good and I will see you in the next lesson.